# Venta-Max-mechanical-ventilator
Our ventilator can assure safe and stable breathing in acute pneumonia patients and can directly help in keeping severe COVID-19 patients breathing when their lungs aren’t capable anymore of delivering a sufficient amount of oxygen by itself. Mainly by controlling the pressure of air inside the lungs in both inhaling and exhaling, respiratory rate and the concentration of oxygen delivered. The ventilator is modular, easy to maintain and clean, and made of widely available materials and sensors with HEPA filtered inlet and outlet. Furthermore, it can be built locally using simple tools and rapid prototyping with simple 3D printed connections. The device can operate using both 110V and 220V with the ability to use internal batteries for more than 180 minutes when not connected to a building AC circuit.  A simple, interactive, user-friendly app allows the user/ doctor to control the mechanical and electrical systems using a touch screen to govern the pressure of the air required as well as the exhalation to inhalation ratio. The doctor can control the inspiratory pressure up to 40cmH2O and the expiratory pressure up to 25cm H2O. He can also control the respiratory rate from 5 to 40 breaths per minute and change oxygen concentration according to the patient’s condition. This ventilator is smart and its behavior is easily monitored as the feedback mechanism implemented, along with the sensors used, make sure the pressure and oxygen delivered just before the lungs match those required and alarms the doctor otherwise.
